Edit v6.13.0 Diffraction Release Notes (#39503)
mantidproject/mantid: docs/source/release/v6.13.0/diffraction.rst

New features
############
- A new algorithm, :ref:`AlignAndFocusPowderSlim <algm-AlignAndFocusPowderSlim>`, has been added (for VULCAN only),
  which replicates the functionality of :ref:`AlignAndFocusPowderFromFiles <algm-AlignAndFocusPowderFromFiles>`, but
  performs all the work on the events directly from the file.
- Several improvements have been made to :ref:`algm-PEARLTransfit`:

  - Perform an initial fit with fixed ``GaussianFWHM`` for calibration runs.
  - Accounted for covariance in error calculation for effective temperature.
  - Added a new input parameter ``RebinInEnergy``. If False then the energy bins will be determined from the TOF bins in
    the input workspace rather than the ``Ediv`` parameter.

- A new method named ``getFittingParameter`` has been added to ``Mantid::Geometry::Component`` class and exposed to

>   python. This allows access to fitting parameters from components in an instrument definition file.

Reviewer: Yes probably!

- The :ref:`Engineering Diffraction <Engineering_Diffraction-ref>` interface's
  :ref:`Calibration <ui engineering calibration>` tab has been improved:

  - Renamed ``Crop Calibration`` to ``Set Calibration Region of Interest`` to more accurately reflect its functionality.
  - Renamed ``Custom CalFile`` to ``Custom Grouping File`` and allowed the provided file to be ``.xml`` as well as
    ``.cal``. This brings it inline with the current detector grouping IO algorithms,
    :ref:`algm-SaveDetectorsGrouping-v1` and :ref:`algm-LoadDetectorsGroupingFile-v1`.
  - Changed the naming suffix for custom file ``example_group.xml`` from ``_Custom`` to ``_Custom_example_group`` so
    they don't get overwritten when custom grouping is changed (this also makes it more clear to the user what grouping
    is being used).
  - Changed the naming suffix for a cropped spectrum list (``example_list``) from ``_Cropped`` to
    ``_Cropped_example_list`` as above.

- Added a warning to the :ref:`Focus tab <ui engineering focus>` for when the vanadium normalisation has been loaded
  from the ADS.

> - Type driven refactor of the :ref:`ui engineering gsas` tab model and centralisation of how ``GSAS-II`` call is
>   configured. The refactor removes the need for hard-coded paths in favour of recursively searching for files within a
>   user defined path. See `#39139 <https://github.com/mantidproject/mantid/issues/39139>`_ for more information.

Reviewer: In terms of what the user may notice we could change this to something like
```suggestion
- Improve error messages to aid troubleshooting problems importing GSAS2 scripting interface in :ref:`ui engineering gsas` tab
```
It does also future-proof us against GSAS changing the location of various files required for the import, but that might be too much detail.
It could also be combined with the bug fix below
```
- ``GSAS-II GSASIIscriptable.py`` no longer uses a hard-coded path which is invalid for newer version of GSAS-II
  (versions 5758 and later). `#38882 <https://github.com/mantidproject/mantid/issues/38882>`_
  ```

- A new algorithm :ref:`algm-CreatePoleFigureTableWorkspace` has been added which creates a table with the information
  required to produce a pole figure (a collection of alphas, betas, and intensities), for use in texture analysis.

Bugfixes
############

> - Disable ``Rietveld`` from :ref:`GSAS-II UI <ui engineering gsas>` Refinement Method combobox options. Add on-hover

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Disable ``Rietveld``  option from :ref:`GSAS-II UI <ui engineering gsas>` Refinement Method combo box - only Pawley refinements are currently supported.
```
